Kp/bst implementation Review First (#33)
Ada-Developers-Academy/ada-CS-Fundamentals-Internship: 03-Binary-Search-Trees/02-Binary-Search-Trees.md

Our search method will find the first node in the tree with a given key. Unlike a linked list, we won't have to search the entire tree to find the node we are looking for. Because the left subtree of a given node will only hold nodes with keys less than the given node, and the right subtree will only hold nodes with keys greater than or equal to the given node, we have to search through at most one of the root node's subtrees to find our node.

We can then look at the root of the relevant subtree and make the same decision about which of its own subtrees we should next traverse. 

Notice that this is a naturally recursive process: We can call search on each subtree until we find the node we are searching for or reach a leaf in the tree. If we reach a leaf (our base case - a tree with a single node) and still haven't found the node we are searching for, we return None. 

### Finding A Node With Python

> ![Finding a 29 in a tree visualization](./images/Binary-Search-Trees__find-value.gif)

Reviewer: I could certainly be mistaken here, but from what I can tell it seems that this GIF demonstrates adding a new node to a BST, rather than searching for a value.

        Return search on current node's right child
```

We can see a full recursive implementation of find below:

```python

    def find_helper(self, current, key):
        # base case - reached a leaf
        if not current:
            return None
        # base case - found what we are looking for
        elif key == current.key:
            return current.value
        # recursive case - key is less than current root's key
        elif key < current.key:
            # call find on left subtree
            return self.find_helper(current.left, key)
        # recursive case - key must be greater than current root's key
        # call find on right subtree
        return self.find_helper(current.right, key)

    def find(self, key):
        return self.find_helper(self.root, key)
```

You can implement the `find` method in Python as follows:

<!-- >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> BEGIN CHALLENGE >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> -->
<!-- Replace everything in square brackets [] and remove brackets  -->

### !challenge

* type: code-snippet
* language: python3.6
* id: 377c6818-080d-42c1-b3b6-6e82cd52da44
* title: Binary Search Tree Iterative Search
* points: 1
  
##### !question

> Now that you have seen `find` implemented recursively, try implementing the same function iteratively. The function takes in a root 'root'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have seen `find` implemented recursively, try implementing the same function iteratively. The function takes in a key 'key'
```

                # make new node left child of current node
                current_node.left = new_node
                return
            # Otherwise, recurse through left subtree of current node
            self.add_helper(current_node.left, new_node)
        # if new node should be in right subtree 
        # (greater than or equal to current node)
        else:
            # if current node is a leaf
            if not current_node.right:
                # make new node right child of current node
                current_node.right = new_node
                return
            # Otherwise, recurse through right subtree of current node
            self.add_helper(current_node.right, new_node)

    def add(self, key, value = None):
        # If tree is empty
        if not self.root:
            # Make new node the root
            self.root = TreeNode(key, value)
        # Otherwise, initiate tree traversal by calling add on root
        else:
            new_node = TreeNode(key, value)
            self.add_helper(self.root, new_node)
```

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge
<!-- ======================= END CHALLENGE ======================= -->

### Deletion

> Deleting a node froma binary search tree is a little more complex than either searching for or inserting a node, because we need to ensure that when we remove the node the resulting tree still maintains the property that all left children are smaller than their parent nodes and all right children are larger than their parent nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deleting a node from a binary search tree is a little more complex than either searching for or inserting a node, because we need to ensure that when we remove the node the resulting tree still maintains the property that all left children are smaller than their parent nodes and all right children are larger than their parent nodes.
```
